Guided Web Application Penetration Test — Write-Up

Platform: TryHackMe — Guided Pentest: Web
Target: 10.128.174.174
Objective: Assess a client's web application for security vulnerabilities, simulating a real-world engagement.

Engagement Path

This engagement followed a realistic chain of escalation, where each step built on information gathered in the one before it:


Reconnaissance and enumeration
Insecure Direct Object Reference (IDOR)
Weak password reset mechanism
Admin panel access
Remote code execution (RCE)


This mirrors how real-world penetration tests typically unfold — a single critical flaw is rarely sitting out in the open. Instead, several individually moderate weaknesses are chained together until they add up to full compromise.

1. Reconnaissance and Enumeration


Connected to the target environment via OpenVPN.
Scanned the target to identify open ports, running services, and service versions.
Used curl -I http://10.128.174.174 to inspect response headers and confirm the technology stack: Apache, PHP, and MySQL.
Manually browsed the site to understand its structure and functionality before testing further.
Used Gobuster to brute-force hidden directories and files, uncovering several points of interest: /api, /admin, /login.php, /uploads.


2. API Exposure


Queried the /api/ root directly and received a full, unauthenticated list of available endpoints — including /api/user, /api/jobs, and /api/applications.
This is a vulnerability in its own right: an API that discloses its entire endpoint map without requiring authentication removes the need for an attacker to guess or infer functionality — it hands over the map for free.


3. Insecure Direct Object Reference (IDOR)


Attempting to access /admin redirected to a login page, so a standard user account was created to explore normal application behaviour.
While reviewing the user profile page (/profile.php?id=), noticed the id parameter was directly user-controllable.
By modifying the id value — both on the web page and via the /api/user endpoint — was able to retrieve other users' data, including the administrator's profile, without needing to authenticate as that user.
This confirmed a significant IDOR vulnerability: the application trusted the supplied ID and returned data without verifying whether the requesting session was actually authorized to view that specific record.


4. Weak Password Reset Mechanism


With the administrator's email address obtained from the IDOR flaw, attempted a password reset on their account.
The application displayed the reset token directly in the response, rather than sending it exclusively through the registered email address.
Even without that flaw, the token itself was weak — a 6-digit numeric code, easily brute-forced given no apparent rate-limiting.
Successfully reset the administrator's password and logged in with full admin access.


5. Admin Panel Access and File Upload Abuse


Inside the admin panel, identified a file upload feature intended for documents (PDF, DOCX, PNG).
Inspecting the upload form revealed the file type restriction was enforced only via the HTML accept attribute — a client-side restriction with no bearing on what the server itself would accept.
Removing this attribute via browser DevTools bypassed the front-end restriction. The server also blacklisted common executable extensions (.php, .txt), but did not account for .phtml — an older, still-executable PHP file extension.
Uploaded a simple PHP web shell saved as shell.phtml, exploiting this blacklist gap.


6. Remote Code Execution


Confirmed the uploaded file's storage location (/uploads/documents/) from information disclosed earlier on the upload page.
Executed commands directly via the web shell:


  curl "http://10.128.174.174/uploads/documents/shell.phtml?cmd=whoami"
  → www-data


Confirmed further system details (hostname, kernel version) and read /etc/passwd to enumerate system users.
Upgraded from the web shell to a fully interactive reverse shell using a bash -i payload redirected through /dev/tcp, caught with a netcat listener.
Verified shell access as www-data, the default Apache service account on Ubuntu.
Retrieved the engagement's flag file, confirming successful completion. Privilege escalation from www-data was identified as a logical next step but was outside the scope of this exercise.


Key Takeaways


API endpoints should only ever reveal their structure or data to authenticated, authorized users — an unauthenticated request should never return a full endpoint map.
IDOR vulnerabilities arise when an application trusts a user-supplied identifier without verifying that the current session is actually authorized to access that specific record. Validating that an ID is well-formed is not the same as validating that the requester owns it.
Password reset tokens must only ever be delivered through a verified, out-of-band channel (e.g. email) — never displayed anywhere in the application's own response.
Token strength matters: short numeric codes are trivially brute-forceable without strict rate-limiting and expiry.
Client-side validation (HTML attributes, JavaScript checks) is a UX convenience, never a security control. All meaningful validation — file type, size, content — must be enforced server-side.
Blacklisting dangerous file extensions is a weak defence, since attackers can often find lesser-known executable extensions (like .phtml) that a blacklist fails to anticipate. Allowlisting explicitly safe extensions is significantly more robust.
Uploaded files should never be stored in a location where the web server will execute them as code, regardless of how well upload validation is implemented — this removes the impact of a validation bypass even if one occurs.
Once remote code execution is achieved, upgrading a limited web shell to a fully interactive reverse shell is a natural next step, enabling more effective enumeration and privilege escalation testing.


Remediation Recommendations


Implement proper authorization checks (not just authentication) on every endpoint that returns user-specific data.
Deliver password reset tokens exclusively via verified out-of-band channels, with enforced expiry and attempt rate-limiting.
Enforce file upload validation server-side using an allowlist of safe extensions, and validate actual file content rather than relying on the extension alone.
Store uploaded files outside any web-executable directory, or explicitly disable script execution within upload directories at the web server configuration level.
Apply the principle of least privilege to the web server's service account to limit the impact of any future RCE.


Engagement Summary

This engagement demonstrated a complete attack chain, progressing from unauthenticated reconnaissance to full remote code execution, by chaining several individually moderate vulnerabilities: an over-exposed API, an IDOR flaw enabling account takeover, a weak password reset mechanism, and insufficient server-side file upload validation. No single flaw was catastrophic in isolation — the overall risk emerged from how these weaknesses compounded together. This reflects a common real-world pattern: attackers rarely need one severe vulnerability when several smaller ones can be chained into something significant.
